# Polymorphic STR

## Overview

Polymorphic STR is a comprehensive STR catalog focused on functional STRs generated using population sequencing data. It is the catalog to use if you would like to analyze STRs genome wide. For more details about how polymorphic STR catalog differ from other catalogs and how it was generated. You can find more details [here](docs/polymorphic_STR.md).

The catalog was originally in hg38 and then liftovered to hg19. Among 37,413 STRs, 36,853 STRs can be liftovered to hg19. 

Among 37,413 STRs, we also overlapped polymorphic STR catalog with RefSeqCurated annotations and selected 2,233 STRs that are within 100bp of exons. 
 
## Truthset

Truthset for NA12878 was generated by combing PacBio CCS data and Illumina data. Overview of the method is described [here](../docs/truthset.md). 

In particular, we performed several filters for polymorphic STR.

1. 29,798 STRs are called consistently by ExpansionHunter in 28 replicates using Illumina data. 
2. We further require minimum allele supported by >30% CCS reads, and all alleles supported by >80% CCS reads which led to 28,687 STRs.
3. We also rescued additional 402 STRs with difference between CCS and ExpansionHunter less than one and STR motif size equals two because CCS reads are less accurate for small indels.
4. In summary, we have 29,089 STRs in the truthset.  

## Population distribution

To facilitate the use of the catalog, we genotyped polymorphic STRs across different samples in 1000 Genomes Project using ExpansionHunter 4.0.1. The genotypes are [here](hg38/genotype/1000genomes). We also summarized polymorphism by population in [documentation](hg38/genotype/1000genomes/docs/polymorphic_STRs_1kg.md).
